===============================================================================
                                 modmsg goals
===============================================================================


Services to Natural Language Framework

Provide natural language interfaces to popular social services like surveys,
reporting, health treatment, environmental education, disaster recovery, ride
sharing, geo-location and translation.  Build web-based two-way communication
tools conducive to the average program manager trying to collect and analyze
data.

Software Community

Without community a piece of software has no future because it either gets
stale or it never takes off because it has no purpose.  Leverage the growing
and maturing ICT4D + JavaScript community.  Evolve past contact-us, demos and
closed loop knowledge.

Conversation API

Publish a structure for service implementers to define a conversation tree
that allows a service to communicate with a user.

Open Specs

Use open standards like OpenAPI to specify and publish our APIs.  Make them
easy to document, test, fork and extend.  Open source our code but also
realize well managed specs and documentation are often just as or more
valuable than reference implementations.

SMS+

SMS (Short Message Service) and MMS are still one of the easiest and most
prevalent ways to exchange information on the planet.  If you can use SMS you
can start collecting data.  If your network is mainly composed of mobile
phones from the 90s that hold a charge for a week, we got your back.

Services would be connected to adapters for various messaging APIs like
SMS/MMS/RCS Gateways, Facebook Messenger, IRC, Slack or any other available
APIs deemed useful by the community.

99% JavaScript

Still need shell scripts though, long live Unix!  Less odd configuration and
contexts, wherever possible everything has a well documented purely functional
JS API.

Zero Setup

Build something that is easy to get up and running and play with immediately.
If you need to hire an organization to configure your software then the
software is broken.  Easily fork existing service modules and create a new
service.

No Data Lock-in

All your data is always available for export in a common format like CSV, XLS
and JSON.

Distributed 

We want to make it easy for you to host and own your data, and we don't want
to host everyone's data.  Provide implementation details of a framework that
can scale.

All Languages

It's an outrageous goal but let's break the language barrier!  English is great
but we live on a planet with thousands of languages.  Polyglots we need you!

Transparency

All planning and decisions are publicized and up for debate, use the community
to work together and find a process that strikes the right balance between
fair and efficient.  Get onboard at Open Collective.

Volunteer Based

Stay volunteer focused by providing a framework for communities to iterate on
the tools, whether it's documentation, tutorials, blog posts, videos or code.
Keep a flat, non-totalitarian organizational structure with minimal hierarchy.

Human Resources

Let's face it, you can write the best software in the world but your most
valuable assets are still human beings.  Don't forget that, build on it.

Wealth in Ecology and Diversity

Support the work of the indigenous populations in places like Ecuador, Bolivia
and Brazil that are leading the way in ecological preservation with things
like the Rights of Nature amended to their constitutions.

Imminent Global Catastrophe

Power is in the hands of the governed, get to work.

